New pages: htmloptionscollection (#35982)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/htmloptionscollection/selectedindex/index.md

---
title: "HTMLOptionsCollection: selectedIndex property"
short-title: selectedIndex
slug: Web/API/HTMLOptionsCollection/selectedIndex
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.HTMLOptionsCollection.selectedIndex
---

{{APIRef("HTML DOM")}}

> The **`selectedIndex`** property of the {{DOMxRef("HTMLOptionsCollection")}} interface is the numeric index of the first selected
> {{HTMLElement("option")}} element, if any, or −1 if no `<option>` is selected. The property changes which option element is selected, or selects an option element if none is selected, with the `-1` deselecting any currently selected elements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`selectedIndex`** property of the {{DOMxRef("HTMLOptionsCollection")}} interface is the numeric index of the first selected {{HTMLElement("option")}} element, if any, or `−1` if no `<option>` is selected. Setting this property selects the option at that index and deselects all other options in this collection, while setting it to `-1` deselects any currently selected elements. It is exactly equivalent to the {{domxref("HTMLSelectElement.selectedIndex", "selectedIndex")}} property of the {{domxref("HTMLSelectElement")}} that owns this collection.
```

(And perhaps that `HTMLSelectElement.selectedIndex` could be slightly expanded too, by copying the same description over)
